---
layout: post
title:
description: ''
date: '2023-06-17'
categories:
note:
mathjax:
mermaidJS:
p5JS:
chartJS:
threeJS:
publish:
---

## Introduction

TBC

## Why?

NoSQL databases are often used for their ability to handle large volumes of unstructured or semi-structured data, provide high scalability and performance, accommodate flexible data models, and support distributed computing environments, making them suitable for various use cases such as web applications, real-time analytics, content management systems, and handling rapidly changing data.

## How?

Handle large volumes of unstructured or semi-structured data. The steps:
* Distributed architectures
  * Use of multiple interconnected nodes or servers that work together to store and process data, allowing for improved fault tolerance, scalability, and performance through data replication, load balancing, and coordination protocols.
* Sharding
  * Purpose:
  * Concept: Data is partitioned across multiple servers based on a specific criterion, such as a key or range of values, allowing for horizontal scalability and efficient distribution of data storage and processing load.
  * Example
    * Vertical Partitioning (column partitioning)
      * Concept: A table's columns are divided into separate physical storage structures or partitions based on their access patterns, allowing for more efficient data retrieval and storage operations by reducing the amount of data read or written during queries or updates.
      * Example
    * Key-Based (or Hash-Based) Partitioning
      * Concept: Data is divided across nodes based on a hash value derived from a key attribute, enabling even data distribution, load balancing, and scalability.
    * Directory-Based Partitioning
      * Concept: A central directory or metadata store maintains mappings between data partitions and the nodes where they are stored, allowing for dynamic assignment and retrieval of data based on queries or operations.
* Flexible schemas
  * Allowing each record or document to have its own structure, eliminating the need for predefined schemas or schema migrations, and providing agility in handling diverse data formats.
* Efficient storage formats
  * Utilizing techniques such as columnar or document-oriented storage, which enable efficient compression, storage, and retrieval of data, resulting in improved storage utilization and query performance on large data sets.
* Distributed query processing
  * Executing queries across multiple nodes in parallel, leveraging distributed computing capabilities, data partitioning, and coordination protocols to optimize query performance and enable efficient processing of queries on large datasets distributed across multiple servers, improving overall query response times.

## What?

## Reference
