---
layout: post
title:
date: '2021-03-02'
categories: rails
note:
publish: true
---

## Introduction

to be continued

## How

### Templating and Structure

* Embedded Ruby (ERB)
  * Usage: Embed dynamic Ruby code within HTML templates, allowing for dynamic content generation
* Layouts
  * Create a consistent structure for your views, enabling the wrapping of multiple views with common elements like headers, footers, and navigation menus
  * Extract reusable components from views, promoting code reusability and easier maintenance

### View Helpers and Assets

Familiarize yourself with view helpers provided by Rails, such as form helpers, link helpers, and asset helpers, to simplify view generation and enhance functionality.
Learn about the Asset Pipeline to manage the compilation, concatenation, and compression of JavaScript and CSS assets, ensuring efficient loading and organization of frontend resources.

### Advanced Topics

Dive into view rendering options like rendering specific views, collections, or JSON/XML responses to handle various rendering scenarios.
Explore internationalization (I18n) to localize views by translating text and handling locale-specific content.
Understand view testing using frameworks like RSpec or MiniTest to ensure the correctness of your views, and discover performance optimization techniques for efficient view rendering.

### View Helper

Take a look at following

```HTML
<tr>  
  <td>  
   <% if gender == 1 %>  
     male  
   <% elsif gender == 0 %>  
     female  
   <% else %>  
     anything  
   <% end %>
  </td>  
</tr>
```
There is an `if else` logic in it. However, because view should just render template, the logic should not in view, so in rails, there is `app/helpers` to solve this problem.

In helper, we can define a function

```ruby
def user_gender(gender)

  if gender == 1  
    return "male"  
  elsif gender == 0  
    return "female"  
  else  
    return "anything"

  end

end
```

Then the logic in html can be written as

```HTML
<tr>
  <td>
   <%= user_gender(gender) %>
  </td>
</tr>
```

### CSRF (Cross-Site Request Forgery)

#### What is CSRF?
wiki: Cross-site request forgery, also known as **one-click attack** or session riding and abbreviated as CSRF or XSRF, is a type of malicious exploit of a website where **unauthorized commands** are submitted from **a user that the web application trusts**

For example, after a user login a webpage, the information would be saved in cookie then we can induce users to click a website we built to send malicious command to the webpage through the cookie. (這個例子還不確定)

#### How to prevent it in rails?
In `application_controller.rb`,
```
protect_from_forgery
```

### How rails find layout for specific method?

In rails, if the controller name is xxxController, then it will try to find xxx.html.erb in `app/views/layouts` first and then go to `application.html.erb`.

#### Specific html in Controller

If I want it to render specific html, xxx, in Controller, I can do the following code
```
class CandidatesController < ApplicationController  
  layout "xxx"  
  ...  
end
```
#### Specific html in Action

If I want it to render specific html, xxx, in Action, I can do the following code
```
class CandidatesController < ApplicationController  
    
  def index  
    @candidates = Candidate.all  
    render layout: "xxx"  
  end

  ...

end
```
### What if I want multiple yield in the same file?

To have multiple yield in one html, you need to have tag for rails identifying which yield to fill in. For example, when I call main page, by default, rails will go to layout to find `application.html.erb`. Then it detects yield, so it go to the views/xxx/yyy.html.erb to find what to be filled into yield if we call a method in webpage xxx/yyy. To help rails to identify which yield to choose, in `yyy.html.erb`
```
...  
<title><%= yield :test %></title>  
...  
<%= yield %>
```
and in `application.html.erb`, there are two method: provide and content_for

#### provide
```
<% provide :test, "Hello" %>

...
```
It will fill Hello into yield :test, and fill the rest of code into yield

#### content_for
```
<% content_for :test do %>  
  Hello  
<% end %>

...
```
It will fill Hello to yield :test and fill the rest of code into yield

### Partial Render

In rails,
```
<% render "form" %>
```
means it will find `_form.html.erb` file in the same directory and put the content into the place of render. Partial render fits the reusage of a html.

For example, if the file,`_form.html.erb:`
```
<%= simple_form_for(candidate) do |f| %>  
  <%= f.input :name, label: "name" %>  
  <%= f.input :age, label: "age" %>  
  <%= f.input :party, label: "party" %>  
  <%= f.input :politics, label: "presentation" %>  
  <%= f.submit %>  
<% end %>
```
Then, in `edit.html.erb`
```
<h1>Edit Candidate</h1>  
<%= render "form", candidate: @candidate %>  
<br />  
<%= link_to 'back to candidates list', candidates_path %>
```
it will put the codes of `_form.html.erb` on the place of `render` in `edit.html.erb` and input the value of `@candidate` to `candidate` .

#### Why `candidate: @candidate` ?

Because `_form.html.erb` as reusable file, it should not take any responsible to find the variable @candidate rather being fed value to candidate with @candidate.

## Reference:

[**為你自己學 Ruby on Rails 高見龍**](https://railsbook.tw/)

[**CSRF-wiki**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-site_request_forgery)

[**rails-security**](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/security.html)
