---
layout: post
title:
note:
date: '2021-03-02T04:18:25.484Z'
categories: rails
publish: true
---

## Introduction

* A model is a Ruby class that is used to represent data. Additionally, models can interact with the application's database through a feature of Rails called [Active Record]({{site.baseurl}}/rails/2021/06/10/active-record.html)
* An object refers to an instance of a class, which represents a single record in a database table.

In this article, I am not going to research how rails code methods in model, so in how section will be basic coding examples for me to understand the concepts. Please refer to [Active Record]({{site.baseurl}}/rails/2021/06/10/active-record.html) to see how rails code the default model methods.

## Why

With model, we can use consistent commands to communicate with all type of databases such as MySQL, Postgresql, …etc.

## How

### Create Model

Define a Ruby class that inherits from the ActiveRecord::Base class. This class will represent a table in your database, and the properties of the class will map to columns in the table. Here is an example:

```ruby
class User < ActiveRecord::Base
end
```

In this example, we have defined a `User` class that inherits from `ActiveRecord::Base`. This class will represent a table called users in our database (convention), and it will have properties that map to columns in the users table.

Then we can interact with database with this model:

* create
  * Create a new record
    ```ruby
    user = User.new(name: 'John', email: 'john@example.com')
    user.save
    ```
* read
  * Query records
    ```ruby
    users = User.where(age: 18..35)
    ```
* update
  * Update a record
    ```ruby
    user = User.find_by(name: 'John')
    user.email = 'new_email@example.com'
    user.save
    ```

### relation

Relations in Rails models establish associations between different model classes, enabling developers to define and navigate the relationships between data entities. These relationships can be expressed through various types such as one-to-one, one-to-many, and many-to-many, allowing for efficient querying, data retrieval, and manipulation within the Rails framework. For more information, please refer to [relation]({{site.baseurl}}/rails/2021/03/03/relation.html)

### validation

Validation in Rails models ensures the accuracy and validity of data. By defining validation rules, such as presence, uniqueness, or format constraints, you can maintain data integrity and provide meaningful error messages to users. For more information, please refer to [validation]({{site.baseurl}}/rails/2021/03/03/relation.html).

### callback

The full life cycle of an object in rails:

* Initialization: The object is created in memory with default attribute values.
* before_validation: Called before validation occurs.
* Validation: The object's attributes are validated to ensure they meet specified constraints or requirements.
* after_validation: Called after validation occurs.
* before_save: Called before the object is saved.
* Database write: The object's attributes are written to the database.
* around_save: Called around the object save.
* after_save: Called after the object is saved.
* before_create: Called before a new record is created.
* around_create: Called around a new record creation.
* after_create: Called after a new record is created.
* before_update: Called before an existing record is updated.
* around_update: Called around an existing record update.
* after_update: Called after an existing record is updated.
* before_destroy: Called before a record is destroyed.
* around_destroy: Called around a record destruction.
* after_destroy: Called after a record is destroyed.

Not all steps of the lifecycle are always executed. For example, if an object fails validation, the before_save, around_save, after_save, before_create, around_create, and after_create callbacks won't be executed.

* coding example

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  before_save :normalize_name
  before_create :encrypt_email
  after_create :send_welcome_email

  private

  def normalize_name
    self.name = name.downcase.titleize
  end

  def send_welcome_email
    UserMailer.welcome_email(self).deliver_now
  end

  def encrypt_email  
    self.email = Digest::MD5.hexdigest(email)  
  end
end
```

### scope

Scopes are defined as class methods on a model and return a relation object, which can be further chained with other query methods to narrow down the results.

```ruby
class Product < ApplicationRecord
  scope :available, -> { where(in_stock: true) }
  scope :priced_above, ->(price) { where('price > ?', price) }
end

# Retrieve all available products
Product.available

# Retrieve all products priced above $50
Product.priced_above(50)

# Combine scopes with other query methods
Product.available.priced_above(50)
```

## What

### real world example

E-commerce application:

* three models
  * Product: The Product model represents a specific item that can be sold on the website
  * Order: The Order model represents a single order that a customer has placed on the website.
  * LineItem: The LineItem model represents a specific item that a customer has added to their cart while shopping.
* A Product can have many LineItems, and a LineItem belongs to a Product and an Order. An Order can have many LineItems.
* settings:
  * Product
    * If a Product is destroyed, all its associated LineItems should be destroyed too
    * Validation that requires name and price to be present.
  * Order
    * If an Order is destroyed, all its associated LineItems should be destroyed too. * Validations that require name and email to be present
    * Callback that set the initial status of the Order to "pending"
    * Callback to update the subtotal of the Order whenever a LineItem is saved.

```ruby
class Product < ApplicationRecord
  has_many :line_items, dependent: :destroy
  validates :name, :price, presence: true
end

class Order < ApplicationRecord
  has_many :line_items, dependent: :destroy
  validates :name, :email, presence: true
  before_create :set_order_status
  before_save :update_subtotal

  def subtotal
    line_items.map(&:total_price).sum
  end

  private

  def set_order_status
    self.status = 'pending'
  end

  def update_subtotal
    self[:subtotal] = subtotal
  end
end

class LineItem < ApplicationRecord
  belongs_to :product
  belongs_to :order, optional: true
  validates :product_id, presence: true
  validates :quantity, numericality: { only_integer: true, greater_than: 0 }

  def total_price
    product.price * quantity
  end
end
```

In the LineItem model, we define a belongs_to association with Product and Order. We also add two validations that require the product_id to be present and the quantity to be greater than zero, as well as a method that calculates the total price of the line item.

With these relationships, validations, and callbacks in place, we can easily create, update, and delete products, orders, and line items in our e-commerce application.

## Reference

[為你自己學 Ruby on Rails 高見龍]("https://railsbook.tw/")

[change vs up & down](https://rubyinrails.com/2014/05/14/rails-migration-change-vs-up-down-methods/)

[Getting Started with Rails](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html)
