---
layout: post
title:
description: ''
date: '2022-10-23'
categories: chemistry
note: to gas law
mathjax: true
mermaid:
p5:
threeJS:
anchor:
publish: true
---

## Introduction

This article

## Why?

focus on why we need it

## How?

### Properties of Gases

* Boyle’s law
  * Given constant external environment, pressure is inversely proportional to the volume
  * $$PV = k$$, $$k$$ is constant
* Charles’s law
  * Given constant external environment, volume is proportional to temperature
  * $$V = kT$$, $$k$$ is constant
* Avogadro’s law
  * Given constant external environment, volume is proportional to mole
  * $$V = nk$$, $$k$$ is constant

### Gas Behavior

The behavior of gases can be explained by the kinetic theory of gases, which states that gases are made up of small particles that are in constant motion and collide with each other and with the walls of their container. The behavior of gases can also be affected by factors such as intermolecular forces, temperature, and pressure.

### Gas Stoichiometry

In chemistry, gas stoichiometry refers to the calculation of the amounts of reactants and products in a chemical reaction that involve gases. This involves using the ideal gas law to determine the number of moles of gas present, as well as balancing the equation and converting between units of volume and moles.

## What?

give an example

## Other

* SI unit: pascal; $$1 atm = 101,325 Pa$$
* ,$$1 torr = 1 mm Hg$$
* ,$$1 atm = 760 torr$$

### Ideal gas law

Given the laws above,

$$pV = nRT$$

* p is pressure
* V is volume
* T is temperature
* n is amount of substance
* R is ideal gas constant

### Dalton’s law of partial pressures

For example, given mixture gas: 2 moles of $$Ar$$ + 3 moles of $$O_2$$ + 5 moles of $$N_2$$ in total pressure of 1000 torr.

* the pressure of $$Ar$$ = 1000 * 2 / (2+3+5)
* the pressure of $$O_2$$ = 1000 * 3 / (2+3+5)
* the pressure of $$N_2$$ = 1000 * 5 / (2+3+5)

The Ideal Gas Law: PV=nRT relates the pressure, volume, temperature, number of moles, and gas constant of an ideal gas, which is a theoretical gas that follows certain assumptions.

Powerful Tool in Chemistry: The ideal gas law is a powerful tool for predicting the behavior of gases, and is often used in chemical calculations. It can be used to calculate the pressure, volume, or temperature of a gas under different conditions, as well as to determine the number of moles of a gas present in a given volume.

Rearranging the Equation: The equation PV=nRT can be rearranged to solve for any one of the variables. This flexibility makes the ideal gas law a versatile tool in chemistry. For example, if the pressure, volume, and number of moles of a gas are known, the temperature can be calculated using the formula T = (PV)/(nR). Similarly, if the pressure, temperature, and number of moles are known, the volume can be calculated using the formula V = (nRT)/P.

## Reference
