---
layout: post
title: ACID
date: '2022-05-14'
categories: database presentation
note: How 跟 What 要完全拆開，可以先寫 What，用 MySQL 舉例，然後再來講 How
mathjax:
mermaid: true
p5:
threeJS:
publish: true
---

## Introduction

**ACID** is the abbreviation of four words: **atomicity (不可分割性), consistency (一致性), isolation (獨立性), durability (持久性)**. With ACID, the database performs transactions reliably. (A transaction means an indivisible unit of work in database)

* Atomicity ensures one transaction is treated as a **single** unit. Rollback **all** commits if transaction fails.
* Consistency ensures transaction can only bring the database from one **valid state** to another. Transactions must pass all predefined rules in schema.
* Isolation ensures **concurrent** transactions leaves the database with **same result**. There are four level: **Read uncommitted(未提交讀), read committed(提交讀), repeatable read(可重複讀), Serializable(串行化)**
* Durability ensures the changes from transaction will remain committed even in the case of a **system failure**

## Why?

If database did not follow this properties,

* no atomicity: transaction fails but **no rollback** -> some SQL command processed and **some did not**
* no consistency: transaction did not follow all **pre-defined rules** such as callbacks, default values, ...etc -> database **corrupted**, making it to be unstable in the future
* no isolation: **concurrent** transactions reading and writing to a table at the same time -> no rules to determine when to share the changes to the concurrent transactions -> **inconsistent results** with same concurrent transactions
* no durability: system crash -> transactions processed but did not change the result

## How? (Concept)

### Atomicity

User A wants to transfer $1,000 dollar to user B. Then the database must execute these two SQL commnads

```SQL
UPDATE BalanceAccount SET Balance = Balance - 1000 WHERE id = 1
UPDATE BalanceAccount SET Balance = Balance + 1000 WHERE id = 2
```

If system did not follow the design of atomicity, then it may execute command 1 but not command 2 and $1,000 dollars disappear.

To solve this issue, atomicity can be achieved with `try catch blocks` as follow:

```SQL
BEGIN TRY
  BEGIN TRANSACTION
    UPDATE BalanceAccount SET Balance = Balance - @amount WHERE id = @from_id
    UPDATE BalanceAccount SET Balance = Balance + @amount WHERE id = @to_id
  COMMIT TRANSACTION -- detect by DBMS
END TRY
BEGIN CATCH
  ROLLBACK TRANSACTION -- rollback with the mechanism of DBMS
END CATCH
```

or **unwanted result**:

| BalanceAccount |
| id | user | balance
| :--- | :----: | :---: |
| 1 | A | $5,000 |
| 2 | B | $4,000 |

* The mechanism of commit and rollback is in the what section

### Consistency

Given that the default data type of balance is `INTEGER`, suppose user A is a hacker and use SQL injection to insert **string** to his account, trying to mess up his balance. With consistency, the value should not be changed as follow:

```SQL
BEGIN TRY
  BEGIN TRANSACTION
    UPDATE BalanceAccount SET Balance = @amount WHERE id = @from_id
  COMMIT TRANSACTION -- DBMS checks whether it follows shcema
END TRY
BEGIN CATCH
  ROLLBACK TRANSACTION -- rollback with the mechanism of DBMS
END CATCH
```

or **unwanted result**:

| BalanceAccount |
| id | user | balance
| :--- | :----: | :---: |
| 1 | A | hahahaha |
| 2 | B | $4,000 |

* The mechanism of commit and rollback is in the what section

### Durability

Database achieve durability by

* non-volatile storage: can retain stored information even after power is removed
* coordinate before commit: if there are concurrent commits, it will coordinate first then commit
* transaction log: recreate the system state with these log

### Isolation

| level\problem | dirty read | non-repeatable read | phamton |
| :--- | ----: | ---: | ---: |
| read uncommitted | true |　true | true |
| read committed | false | true | true |
| repeatable read | false | false | true |
| serializable | false | false | false |

As you can see, serializable > repeatable read > read committed > read uncommitted

Problems:

* dirty read: read data from a row that has been modified by another **running** transaction and not yet committed
* non-repeatable read: returns two different result in **single transaction** because of other updates
* phamton: different **number of rows** created by other transaction during single transaction

#### dirty read

User A transfer $1,000 dollar to user B but input string value, `"$1,000"` rather than `1000`. Then given above mechanism, this transaction will be rollback. Dirty read may occur if database read the value before database finish the `COMMIT`.

If we set the transaction level to read uncommited as follow:

```SQL
SET TRANSACTION LEVEL READ UNCOMMITED
SELECT balance FROM BalanceAccount WHERE id = 1 -- balance = 5000
-- the updates that going to be rollback
SELECT balance FROM BalanceAccount WHERE id = 1 -- balance = 4000 -> wrong
-- rollback occurs
```

then the unwanted result in one transaction:

```SQL
5000 -- first SELECT
-- commit rollback
4000 -- second SELECT
```

#### non-repeatable read

Again, user A transfer $1,000 dollar to user B and there is a mechanism to sum up the debit and credit values cash flows and compare the value with balance. Non-repeatable read occurs when some value updates during multiple SELECT in one transaction

If we set the level to READ COMMITTED read as follow:

```SQL
SET TRANSACTION ISOLATION LEVEL READ COMMITTED

BEGIN TRANSACTION
SELECT balance FROM BalanceAccount WHERE id = 1 -- balance = 5000
... -- some complex SQL commands costing lots of time to compare value with debit side
SELECT balance FROM BalanceAccount WHERE id = 1 -- balance = 5000 (still!!!!!!!!!!)
... -- some complex SQL commands to compare value with credit side
COMMIT TRANSACTION
```

then the unwanted result in one transaction

```SQL
5000 -- first SELECT
-- commit occurs
4000 -- second SELECT
```

#### phamton

Suppose there is a transaction needs the total number of BalanceAccount at the beginning and the end and there is a new user created. The `TRANSACTION` would be as follow:

If we set the level to REPEATABLE READ read as follow:

```SQL
SET TRANSACTION ISOLATION LEVEL REPEATABLE READ
BEGIN TRANSACTION
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM BalanceAccount -- return 100
-- some complex calcualtions take time
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM BalanceAccount -- return 100
COMMIT TRANSACTION
```

or **unwanted result**:

```SQL
100 -- first select
-- some complex calcualtions take time
101 -- second select
```

## What?

Take MySQL as example, the dataflow as follow: (two-phase commit)

<div class="mermaid">
graph TD
  id1((transaction))
  id2(DBMS)
  id3[log]
</div>

<div class="mermaid">
graph TD
  data((transaction)) --flow into--> InnoDB(InnoDB)
  InnoDB(InnoDB) --insert into cache memory--> redo_log_prepare[redo log .prepare]
  redo_log_prepare[redo log .prepare] --InnoDB inform MySQL Server--> mysql_server(MySQL Server)
  mysql_server(MySQL Server) --insert into cache memory--> binlog[binlog]
  binlog[binlog] --MySQL Server inform InnoDB--> InnoDB2(InnoDB)
  InnoDB2(InnoDB) --change log--> redo_log_commit[redo log .commit]
  redo_log_commit[redo log .commit] --batch writing--> database
</div>

* Note: binlog is for MySQL and redo log is form InnoDB.

### Atomicity (MySQL)

If failed in any steps, MySQL will rollback the database by recovering records with **redo log and binlog**, ensuring Atomicity.

### Consistency (MySQL)

It will check whether the log follows schema to make sure consistency. If not, rollback with log.

### Durability (MySQL)

If system crash, recover data with binlog. (redo log only records fix amount of transactions)

### Isolation (MySQL)

#### dirty read in mysql

Transaction B can read uncommit changes from transaction A.

* Transaction A:

```SQL
START TRANSACTION;
UPDATE users SET email = 'hahaha@lalala.com' WHERE id = 8;
DO SLEEP(15);
ROLLBACK;
```

* Transaction B:

```SQL
SET SESSION TRANSACTION ISOLATION LEVEL READ UNCOMMITTED; -- the default level in mysql is REPEATABLE READ
SELECT * FROM users
```

#### non-repeatable read in mysql

Transaction B can read the changes from transaction A during the transaction B.

* Transaction A:

```SQL
UPDATE users SET email = 'hahaha@lalala.com' WHERE id = 8;
```

* Transaction B:

```SQL
SET SESSION TRANSACTION ISOLATION LEVEL REPEATABLE READ; -- the default level in mysql is REPEATABLE READ
START TRANSACTION;
SELECT * FROM users WHERE id = 8;
DO SLEEP(10);
SELECT * FROM users WHERE id = 8;
COMMIT;
```

#### phamton in mysql

* Transaction A:

```SQL
INSERT INTO admin_roles (`name`, `created_at`, `updated_at`) VALUES ('testing', '2022-01-01', '2022-01-01')
```

* Transaction B:

```SQL
SET SESSION TRANSACTION ISOLATION LEVEL SERIALIZABLE; -- the default level in mysql is REPEATABLE READ
START TRANSACTION;
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM admin_roles; -- return 100
DO SLEEP(10);
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM admin_roles; -- return 100
COMMIT;
```

## Reference

[ACID](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ACID)

[Database Transactions (ACID)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AcqtAEzuoj0)

[sql server dirty read example](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5ZEchu2WnD4)

[Non repeatable read example in sql server](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d5QNpsezNTs)

[Durability (database systems)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Durability_(database_systems))

[MySQL 基本運作介紹，從資料庫交易與 ACID 特性開始](https://tw.alphacamp.co/blog/mysql-intro-acid-in-databases)
