---
layout: post
title: 10x engineer
description: ''
date: '2022-03-05'
categories:
note:
mermaid:
---

## Introduction

This article presents my notes towards the concept.

## Why?

I need a guide for myself to decide which tickets should I do first as a software engineer.

## How?

### defination

On the perspective of your organization, this engineer is 10x better than other enginners and since I am now in a company, the defination is making 10x more to benefit shareholders -> increase 10x discounted cash flow (customers * (LTV - CAC) of each customer) -> increase 10x customers, increase 10x LTV of each customer and decrease 10x CAC of each customer

### increase customers

In the perspective of engineers, if this task is related to a new feature or new product, then you should do it first, given the company has already decided to do it.

### increase LTV

LTV = average monthly amount expected from each customer / churn rate

So if this ticket can increase customers' willings to pay and decrease the amount of customers leaving, then you should do it, meaning if it's a bug or user experience is terrible, then you should do it.

### decrease CAC

CAC = total cost of sales & marketing / number of customers acquired

So if this ticket can increase the number of customers acquired given the budget, then you should do it, meaning if it attracts more users, then do it.

### summary

Any tickets unrelated to the above three aspects can be postponed.

It depends on the stage of the product to decide which aspect should be done first; for a startup product, the most important tickets related to increase customers, for a product having stable business model, meaning it's hard to acquire more customers, the most important tickets would be related to LTV, and for a dying product, the most important tickets would be related to CAC.

## What?

For my current company as an example, the priority would be as follow:

1. tickets related to new products (to expend markets) and do not care about whether it lives or not
2. tickets related to bug and user experience of stable but not dying products
3. tickets related to cost issue because it must related to some dying products, so we care about cost
4. other

If there are so many tickets and you do not know what to do, check this post first.

## Reference

[Lifetime value](https://www.optimizely.com/optimization-glossary/lifetime-value/#:~:text=What%20is%20lifetime%20value%3F,%2C%20resources%2C%20profitability%20and%20forecasting.)
